Fixing the Slim CI references (#2800)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job.md

description: "You can enable continuous integration (CI) to test every single change prior to deploying the code to production just like in a software development workflow."
---

> dbt Cloud makes it easy to test every single code change you make prior to deploying that new logic into production. Once you've connected your [GitHub account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-github), [GitLab account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-azure-devops), you can configure continuous integration (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository by setting up a webhook.

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud makes it easy to test every single code change you make prior to deploying that new logic into production. Once you've connected your [GitHub account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-github), [GitLab account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-azure-devops), you can configure continuous integration (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository by setting up a webhook. For more information, refer to [Configuring a webhook](#configuring-a-webhook)
```

> dbt Cloud makes it easy to test every single code change you make prior to deploying that new logic into production. Once you've connected your [GitHub account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-github), [GitLab account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-azure-devops), you can configure continuous integration (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository by setting up a webhook. For more information, refer to [Configuring a webhook](#configuring-a-webhook)

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud makes it easy to test every single code change you make prior to deploying that new logic into production. Once you've connected your [GitHub account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-github), [GitLab account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-azure-devops), you can configure continuous integration (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository by setting up a webhook. For more information, refer to [Configuring a webhook](#configuring-a-webhook).
```

Draft pull requests do _not_ trigger jobs. If you would like jobs to run on each new commit, please mark your pull request as **Ready for review**.

:::info GitLab Compatibility

Only GitLab users with a paid or self-hosted GitLab account can use GitLab webhooks.

:::

:::info Common Errors
If you previously configured your dbt project by providing a generic git URL that clones using SSH, you need to [reconfigure the project](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#reconnecting-your-dbt-project-to-use-dbt-clouds-native-integration-with-github-gitlab-or-azure-devops) to connect through dbt Cloud's native integration with GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps instead.
:::

## Configuring continuous integration in dbt Cloud

> When you set up a dbt Cloud CI job, dbt Cloud will listen for webhooks from GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps indicating that a new pull request has been opened or updated with new commits. When one of these webhooks is received, dbt Cloud will enqueue a new run of the CI job. Crucially, this run will build into a temporary schema using the prefix `dbt_cloud_pr_`. This schema isolation acts as a quasi-staging environment, so that you can see the builds resulting from the code associated with the PR's commit. The unique schema name can be found in the run details for the given run, as shown below.

Author: ```suggestion
When you set up a dbt Cloud CI job with a [webhook configured](#configuring-a-webhook), dbt Cloud will listen for webhooks from GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps indicating that a new pull request has been opened or updated with new commits. When one of these webhooks is received, dbt Cloud will enqueue a new run of the CI job. Crucially, this run will build into a temporary schema using the prefix `dbt_cloud_pr_`. This schema isolation acts as a quasi-staging environment, so that you can see the builds resulting from the code associated with the PR's commit. The unique schema name can be found in the run details for the given run, as shown in the following image:
```

> When you set up a dbt Cloud CI job with a [webhook configured](#configuring-a-webhook), dbt Cloud will listen for webhooks from GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps indicating that a new pull request has been opened or updated with new commits. When one of these webhooks is received, dbt Cloud will enqueue a new run of the CI job. Crucially, this run will build into a temporary schema using the prefix `dbt_cloud_pr_`. This schema isolation acts as a quasi-staging environment, so that you can see the builds resulting from the code associated with the PR's commit. The unique schema name can be found in the run details for the given run, as shown in the following image:

Author: ```suggestion
When you set up a dbt Cloud CI job with a [webhook configured](#configuring-a-webhook), dbt Cloud will listen for webhooks from GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps indicating that a new pull request has been opened or updated with new commits. When one of these webhooks is received, dbt Cloud will enqueue a new run of the CI job. 

Crucially, this run will build into a temporary schema using the prefix `dbt_cloud_pr_`. This schema isolation acts as a quasi-staging environment, so that you can see the builds resulting from the code associated with the PR's commit. The unique schema name can be found in the run details for the given run, as shown in the following image:
```

After completing the dbt run, dbt Cloud will update the pull request in GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps with a status message indicating the results of the run. The status message will state whether the models and tests ran successfully or not. You can enable a setting in your git provider that makes "successful pull request checks" a requirement to merge code. And finally, once the pull request is closed or merged, dbt Cloud will delete the temporary schema from your <Term id="data-warehouse" />.

dbt Cloud may not drop the temporary schema from your data warehouse if your project has database / schema customization via the [`generate_database_name`](/docs/build/custom-databases#generate_database_name) / [`generate_schema_name`](/docs/build/custom-schemas#how-does-dbt-generate-a-models-schema-name) macros. For more information, refer to [Temp PR schema limitations](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#temp-pr-schema-limitations).

### Configuring a webhook

If you want dbt Cloud to run the job whenever a pull request or commit is made, rather than on a schedule, you should set up a webhook. 

To set up a webhook:

> 1. Naviaget to the **Triggers** section of the jobs settings page

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Triggers** section of the jobs settings page
```

description: "You can enable continuous integration (CI) to test every single change prior to deploying the code to production just like in a software development workflow."
---

> dbt Cloud makes it easy to test every single code change you make prior to deploying that new logic into production. Once you've connected your [GitHub account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-github), [GitLab account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-azure-devops), you can configure continuous integration (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository by setting up a webhook. For more information, refer to [Configuring a webhook](#configuring-a-webhook).

Reviewer: "by setting up a webhook" is a bit confusing here - it is technically true in that that's how it's implemented, but you don't need to set up one of the newly released webhooks to make this happen. I would just drop that part of the sentence

Draft pull requests do _not_ trigger jobs. If you want jobs to run on each new commit, you need to mark your pull request as **Ready for review**.

:::info GitLab Compatibility

Only GitLab users with a paid or self-hosted GitLab account can use GitLab webhooks.

:::

:::info Common Errors
If you previously configured your dbt project by providing a generic git URL that clones using SSH, you need to [reconfigure the project](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#reconnecting-your-dbt-project-to-use-dbt-clouds-native-integration-with-github-gitlab-or-azure-devops) to connect through dbt Cloud's native integration with GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps instead.
:::

## Configuring continuous integration in dbt Cloud

When you set up a dbt Cloud CI job with a [webhook configured](#configuring-a-webhook), dbt Cloud will listen for webhooks from GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps indicating that a new pull request has been opened or updated with new commits. When one of these webhooks is received, dbt Cloud will enqueue a new run of the CI job. 

> Crucially, this run will build into a temporary schema using the prefix `dbt_cloud_pr_`. This schema isolation acts as a quasi-staging environment, so that you can see the builds resulting from the code associated with the PR's commit. The unique schema name can be found in the run details for the given run, as shown in the following image:

Reviewer: along with your project ID and the PR's ID

☝️ this keeps them unique when there are multiple PRs in flight at once

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/using_ci_dbt_cloud.png" title="Viewing the temporary schema name for a run triggered by a PR"/>

After completing the dbt run, dbt Cloud will update the pull request in GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps with a status message indicating the results of the run. The status message will state whether the models and tests ran successfully or not. You can enable a setting in your git provider that makes "successful pull request checks" a requirement to merge code. And finally, once the pull request is closed or merged, dbt Cloud will delete the temporary schema from your <Term id="data-warehouse" />.

dbt Cloud might not drop the temporary schema from your data warehouse if your project has database / schema customization using the [`generate_database_name`](/docs/build/custom-databases#generate_database_name) / [`generate_schema_name`](/docs/build/custom-schemas#how-does-dbt-generate-a-models-schema-name) macros. For more information, refer to [Temp PR schema limitations](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#temp-pr-schema-limitations).

> ### Configuring a webhook

Reviewer: Same comment about conflating the new webhooks feature with this feature

> If you want dbt Cloud to run the job whenever a pull request or commit is made, rather than on a schedule, you can set up a webhook. 

Reviewer: I don't think you can run a CI job any other way than this, so the "rather than on a schedule" doesn't make sense

description: "You can enable continuous integration (CI) to test every single change prior to deploying the code to production just like in a software development workflow."
---

dbt Cloud makes it easy to test every single code change you make prior to deploying that new logic into production. Once you've connected your [GitHub account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-github), [GitLab account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps account](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-azure-devops), you can configure continuous integration (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository by setting up a webhook. For more information, refer to [Configuring a webhook](#configuring-a-webhook).

> Draft pull requests do _not_ trigger jobs. If you would like jobs to run on each new commit, please mark your pull request as **Ready for review**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Draft pull requests do _not_ trigger jobs. If you want jobs to run on each new commit, you need to mark your pull request as **Ready for review**.
```

Crucially, this run will build into a temporary schema using the prefix `dbt_cloud_pr_`. This schema isolation acts as a quasi-staging environment, so that you can see the builds resulting from the code associated with the PR's commit. The unique schema name can be found in the run details for the given run, as shown in the following image:

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/using_ci_dbt_cloud.png" title="Viewing the temporary schema name for a run triggered by a PR"/>

After completing the dbt run, dbt Cloud will update the pull request in GitHub, GitLab, or Azure DevOps with a status message indicating the results of the run. The status message will state whether the models and tests ran successfully or not. You can enable a setting in your git provider that makes "successful pull request checks" a requirement to merge code. And finally, once the pull request is closed or merged, dbt Cloud will delete the temporary schema from your <Term id="data-warehouse" />.

> dbt Cloud may not drop the temporary schema from your data warehouse if your project has database / schema customization via the [`generate_database_name`](/docs/build/custom-databases#generate_database_name) / [`generate_schema_name`](/docs/build/custom-schemas#how-does-dbt-generate-a-models-schema-name) macros. For more information, refer to [Temp PR schema limitations](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#temp-pr-schema-limitations).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud might not drop the temporary schema from your data warehouse if your project has database / schema customization using the [`generate_database_name`](/docs/build/custom-databases#generate_database_name) / [`generate_schema_name`](/docs/build/custom-schemas#how-does-dbt-generate-a-models-schema-name) macros. For more information, refer to [Temp PR schema limitations](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#temp-pr-schema-limitations).
```

### Configuring a webhook

> If you want dbt Cloud to run the job whenever a pull request or commit is made, rather than on a schedule, you should set up a webhook. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want dbt Cloud to run the job whenever a pull request or commit is made, rather than on a schedule, you can set up a webhook. 
```

To set up a webhook:

1. Navigate to the **Triggers** section of the jobs settings page
2. Select **Webhooks**. 
3. Select **Run on Pull Requests?** as shown in the following image.

> 4. If you don't also want this job running on a time-based cadence, make sure to turn the scheduled run off by clicking **Schedule** and making sure to toggle **Run on schedule** off.

Author: ```suggestion
```

The green checkmark means the dbt builds and tests were successful. Clicking on the dbt Cloud section navigates you to the relevant CI run in dbt Cloud.
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/Enabling-CI/ADO CI Check.png" title="Azure DevOps pull request"/>

## Configuring a Slim CI job

> Slim CI offers an alternative in dbt Cloud for running and testing all models in your project. When you're only changing a few handful of models, Slim CI can decrease the time it takes by running and testing only modified models. Slim CI enables you to focus on testing changed models and reduces your overall cost. 

Reviewer: Slim CI isn't unique to dbt Cloud, it just is _way_ easier to do it in Cloud because we manage all the artifacts etc for you

>Slim CI offers an alternative to running and testing all models in your project, even when you're only changed a couple of things. Slim CI can decrease the time it takes by running and testing only modified models, which can also reduce unnecessary resource usage on your warehouse/data platform.

> Once you open a pull request, dbt Cloud builds the models affected by the code change in a temporary schema and runs the tests for these models as a check. This process provides a staging environment where you can check the run status. When the CI job completes, you can see the run status directly in the pull request. The CI job enables you to deploy new code to production with confidence.

Reviewer: This statement is true whether or not Slim CI is enabled, and is very similar to the stuff on line 27. I'd move this up and combine the best bits of both

The green checkmark means the dbt builds and tests were successful. Clicking on the dbt Cloud section navigates you to the relevant CI run in dbt Cloud.
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/Enabling-CI/ADO CI Check.png" title="Azure DevOps pull request"/>

## Configuring a Slim CI job

> Slim CI offers an alternative to running and testing all models in your project, which costs time (and money) and feels especially painful if your pull request only proposes changes to a handful of models. Slim CI enables you to run modified models so you can focus on testing those changes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Slim CI offers an alternative to dbt Cloud for running and testing all models in your project, which costs time (and money) and feels especially painful if your pull request only proposes changes to a handful of models. Slim CI enables you to run modified models so you can focus on testing those changes. 
```

Reviewer 2: sugg: consider rewording so it's not so _opinionated_ about Slim CI (eg maybe flip it around and talk about our benefits -- opinionated about our tech stack). i see that more in blogs, less so in product docs.

> Slim CI offers an alternative to dbt Cloud for running and testing all models in your project, which costs time (and money) and feels especially painful if your pull request only proposes changes to a handful of models. Slim CI enables you to run modified models so you can focus on testing those changes. 

Author: ```suggestion
Slim CI offers an alternative in dbt Cloud for running and testing all models in your project. When you're only changing a few handful of models, Slim CI can decrease the time it takes by running and testing only modified models. Slim CI enables you to focus on testing changed models and reduces your overall cost. 
```

Once you open a pull request, dbt Cloud builds the models affected by the code change in a temporary schema and runs the tests for these models as a check. This process provides a staging environment where you can check the run status. When the CI job completes, you can see the run status directly in the pull request. The CI job enables you to deploy new code to production with confidence.

> These components distinguish a Slim CI job:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These components distinguish a Slim CI job from a dbt CI job:
```

- Must defer to a production job.
- Commands need to have a `state:modified+` selector to build only new or changed models and their downstream dependents. Importantly, state comparison can only happen when there is a deferred job selected to compare state to. For more information, refer to [Defferral and state comparision](#deferral-and-state-comparison)

> - Must be triggered by pull request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Must be triggered by a pull request.
```

### Deferral and state comparison  

> When creating a job in dbt Cloud, you can configure your Execution settings to defer to a previous run state. Using the dropdown menu to select which _production_ job you want to defer to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When creating a job in dbt Cloud, you can configure your **Execution Settings** to defer to a previous run state by using the dropdown menu to select which _production_ job you want to defer to.
```

To learn more about state comparison and deferral in dbt, read the docs on [state](/docs/deploy/about-state).

> ### Fresh Rebuilds

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Fresh rebuilds
```
